# t3h-static-site-generator

_NPM package is being tested, do not use._

My static site generator, used for my own website.

Written for use with Node.js 6+, supports posts in markdown with GFM syntax block and code highlighting.

I didn't like trying to learn the quirks and nuances of other site generators.
This was used as an opportunity to learn some modern JavaScript and make my site work exactly how I want.
I like to learn how and why things work so writing things from scratch makes sense.

The development of this project is developed using Github issues via a Waffle board:
https://waffle.io/t3hmun/t3h-static-site-generator

This project is a neatly NPM packaged evolution of my slightly older site generator.
The aim of this incarnation is to make it easy to use with GitLab CI.


## Operation

### Publishing

The site is generated by a single command:

```bash
$ node publish
```

The process involves:

* Loading templates written in [Pug](http://pugjs.org) that define the common layout of all pages.
* Compiling posts written in Markdown and then inserting them into the Pug templates.
* Rendering pure pug pages using the templates (including auto-generated post indexes).
* Compiling CSS styles from LESS files.
* TODO: Minfy JS.

I've tried to minimise the amount of external code, however Markdown,
templating and CSS libraries are far too be to DIY (also pointless).

### Preview

The preview mode does not launch a local server like most site generators.
Instead it re-writes all the URLs as local files `file:///`, which works just fine on most browsers.
This is also applied to all links; all links are coded to prepend the site's base-url in pug.

> There is no clever code for properly resolving full links in the Markdown yet.
> Generally links withing the markdown are relative.

To generate an offline preview:

```bash
$ node publish test
```


## Status

_Updated 08th March 2017_

In development, not ready for use (see Waffle board for progress).

First npm test release in testing.

The development is split into Milestones that signify a major step.

### Initial Import Milestone

**STATUS**: Complete on time.

This was importing the old project and making it suitable for deployment as an NPM package.


### Features Milestone

**STATUS**: Always ongoing.

Milestone to get all basic site features working properly.


### Appearance Milestone

This is an infinite ongoing category for aesthetic tweaks.
Always regarded as low priority.


### HTTPS and Custom URL Milestone

This is the milestone to get the site (my site) working on GitLab CI (or any service tbh),
with a custom URL using proper HTTPS.

### NPM Package Milestone

**STATUS**: In progress.


## License

GPL3